---
title: "9.14. UUID Functions"
id: functions-uuid
---

## UUID Functions

[Generation Functions](#func_uuid_gen_table) shows the PostgreSQL functions that can be used to generate UUIDs.

:::{.table}
  :::{.row header="true"}
  :::{.cell}
   Function

   Description

   Example(s)
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   `gen_random_uuid` ( ) uuid

   `uuidv4` ( ) uuid

   Generates a version 4 (random) UUID

   `gen_random_uuid()` 5b30857f-0bfa-48b5-ac0b-5c64e28078d1

   `uuidv4()` b42410ee-132f-42ee-9e4f-09a6485c95b8
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   `uuidv7` ( \[`shift` `interval`\] ) uuid

   Generates a version 7 (time-ordered) UUID. The timestamp is computed using UNIX timestamp with millisecond precision + sub-millisecond timestamp + random. The optional parameter `shift` will shift the computed timestamp by the given `interval`.

   `uuidv7()` 019535d9-3df7-79fb-b466-fa907fa17f9e
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
:::{/table}

: UUID Generation Functions

:::{.callout type="note"}
The [F.49. uuid-ossp — a UUID generator](braised:ref/uuid-ossp) module provides additional functions that implement other standard algorithms for generating UUIDs.
:::

[Extraction Functions](#func_uuid_extract_table) shows the PostgreSQL functions that can be used to extract information from UUIDs.

:::{.table}
  :::{.row header="true"}
  :::{.cell}
   Function

   Description

   Example(s)
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   `uuid_extract_timestamp` ( `uuid` ) timestamp with time zone

   Extracts a `timestamp with time zone` from a UUID of version 1 or 7. For other versions, this function returns null. Note that the extracted timestamp is not necessarily exactly equal to the time the UUID was generated; this depends on the implementation that generated the UUID.

   `uuid_extract_timestamp('019535d9-3df7-79fb-b466-​fa907fa17f9e'::uuid)` 2025-02-23 21:46:24.503-05
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   `uuid_extract_version` ( `uuid` ) smallint

   Extracts the version from a UUID of one of the variants described by [RFC 9562](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9562). For other variants, this function returns null. For example, for a UUID generated by `gen_random_uuid()`, this function will return 4.

   `uuid_extract_version('41db1265-8bc1-4ab3-992f-​885799a4af1d'::uuid)` 4

   `uuid_extract_version('019535d9-3df7-79fb-b466-​fa907fa17f9e'::uuid)` 7
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
:::{/table}

: UUID Extraction Functions

PostgreSQL also provides the usual comparison operators shown in [Comparison Operators](braised:ref/functions-comparison#comparison-operators) for UUIDs.

See [UUID Type](braised:ref/datatype-uuid) for details on the data type `uuid` in PostgreSQL.
