---
title: "45.1. Interface Functions"
id: spi-interface
---

## Interface Functions

SPI_connect

3

SPI_connect

SPI_connect_ext

connect a C function to the SPI manager

int SPI_connect(void)

int SPI_connect_ext(int

options

)

## Description

`SPI_connect` opens a connection from a C function invocation to the SPI manager.
You must call this function if you want to execute commands through SPI.
Some utility SPI functions can be called from unconnected C functions.

`SPI_connect_ext` does the same but has an argument that allows passing option flags.
Currently, the following option values are available:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OPT_NONATOMIC`"}
Sets the SPI connection to be nonatomic, which means that transaction control calls (`SPI_commit`, `SPI_rollback`) are allowed. Otherwise, calling those functions will result in an immediate error.
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

`SPI_connect()` is equivalent to `SPI_connect_ext(0)`.

## Return Value

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_CONNECT`"}
on success
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

The fact that these functions return `int` not `void` is historical.
All failure cases are reported via `ereport` or `elog`. (In versions before PostgreSQL v10, some but not all failures would be reported with a result value of `SPI_ERROR_CONNECT`.)

SPI_finish

3

SPI_finish

disconnect a C function from the SPI manager

int SPI_finish(void)

## Description

`SPI_finish` closes an existing connection to the SPI manager.
You must call this function after completing the SPI operations needed during your C function\'s current invocation.
You do not need to worry about making this happen, however, if you abort the transaction via `elog(ERROR)`.
In that case SPI will clean itself up automatically.

## Return Value

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_FINISH`"}
if properly disconnected
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_UNCONNECTED`"}
if called from an unconnected C function
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

SPI_execute

3

SPI_execute

execute a command

int SPI_execute(const char \*

command

, bool

read_only

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_execute` executes the specified SQL command for `count` rows.
If `read_only` is `true`, the command must be read-only, and execution overhead is somewhat reduced.

This function can only be called from a connected C function.

If `count` is zero then the command is executed for all rows that it applies to.
If `count` is greater than zero, then no more than `count` rows will be retrieved; execution stops when the count is reached, much like adding a `LIMIT` clause to the query.
For example,

    SPI_execute("SELECT * FROM foo", true, 5);

will retrieve at most 5 rows from the table.
Note that such a limit is only effective when the command actually returns rows.
For example,

    SPI_execute("INSERT INTO foo SELECT * FROM bar", false, 5);

inserts all rows from bar, ignoring the `count` parameter.
However, with

    SPI_execute("INSERT INTO foo SELECT * FROM bar RETURNING *", false, 5);

at most 5 rows would be inserted, since execution would stop after the fifth `RETURNING` result row is retrieved.

You can pass multiple commands in one string; `SPI_execute` returns the result for the command executed last.
The `count` limit applies to each command separately (even though only the last result will actually be returned).
The limit is not applied to any hidden commands generated by rules.

When `read_only` is `false`, `SPI_execute` increments the command counter and computes a new snapshot before executing each command in the string.
The snapshot does not actually change if the current transaction isolation level is `SERIALIZABLE` or `REPEATABLE READ`, but in `READ COMMITTED` mode the snapshot update allows each command to see the results of newly committed transactions from other sessions.
This is essential for consistent behavior when the commands are modifying the database.

When `read_only` is `true`, `SPI_execute` does not update either the snapshot or the command counter, and it allows only plain `SELECT` commands to appear in the command string.
The commands are executed using the snapshot previously established for the surrounding query.
This execution mode is somewhat faster than the read/write mode due to eliminating per-command overhead.
It also allows genuinely stable functions to be built: since successive executions will all use the same snapshot, there will be no change in the results.

It is generally unwise to mix read-only and read-write commands within a single function using SPI; that could result in very confusing behavior, since the read-only queries would not see the results of any database updates done by the read-write queries.

The actual number of rows for which the (last) command was executed is returned in the global variable `SPI_processed`.
If the return value of the function is `SPI_OK_SELECT`, `SPI_OK_INSERT_RETURNING`, `SPI_OK_DELETE_RETURNING`, `SPI_OK_UPDATE_RETURNING`, or `SPI_OK_MERGE_RETURNING`, then you can use the global pointer `SPITupleTable *SPI_tuptable` to access the result rows.
Some utility commands (such as `EXPLAIN`) also return row sets, and `SPI_tuptable` will contain the result in these cases too.
Some utility commands (`COPY`, `CREATE TABLE AS`) don\'t return a row set, so `SPI_tuptable` is NULL, but they still return the number of rows processed in `SPI_processed`.

The structure SPITupleTable is defined thus:

    typedef struct SPITupleTable
    {
        /* Public members */
        TupleDesc   tupdesc;        /* tuple descriptor */
        HeapTuple  *vals;           /* array of tuples */
        uint64      numvals;        /* number of valid tuples */

        /* Private members, not intended for external callers */
        uint64      alloced;        /* allocated length of vals array */
        MemoryContext tuptabcxt;    /* memory context of result table */
        slist_node  next;           /* link for internal bookkeeping */
        SubTransactionId subid;     /* subxact in which tuptable was created */
    } SPITupleTable;

The fields tupdesc, vals, and numvals can be used by SPI callers; the remaining fields are internal. vals is an array of pointers to rows.
The number of rows is given by numvals (for somewhat historical reasons, this count is also returned in `SPI_processed`). tupdesc is a row descriptor which you can pass to SPI functions dealing with rows.

`SPI_finish` frees all SPITupleTables allocated during the current C function.
You can free a particular result table earlier, if you are done with it, by calling `SPI_freetuptable`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
string containing command to execute
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

If the execution of the command was successful then one of the following (nonnegative) values will be returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_SELECT`"}
if a `SELECT` (but not `SELECT INTO`) was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_SELINTO`"}
if a `SELECT INTO` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_INSERT`"}
if an `INSERT` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_DELETE`"}
if a `DELETE` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_UPDATE`"}
if an `UPDATE` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_MERGE`"}
if a `MERGE` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_INSERT_RETURNING`"}
if an `INSERT RETURNING` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_DELETE_RETURNING`"}
if a `DELETE RETURNING` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_UPDATE_RETURNING`"}
if an `UPDATE RETURNING` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_MERGE_RETURNING`"}
if a `MERGE RETURNING` was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_UTILITY`"}
if a utility command (e.g., `CREATE TABLE`) was executed
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_REWRITTEN`"}
if the command was rewritten into another kind of command (e.g., `UPDATE` became an `INSERT`) by a [rule](#rules).
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

On error, one of the following negative values is returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT`"}
if `command` is `NULL` or `count` is less than 0
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_COPY`"}
if `COPY TO stdout` or `COPY FROM stdin` was attempted
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_TRANSACTION`"}
if a transaction manipulation command was attempted (`BEGIN`, `COMMIT`, `ROLLBACK`, `SAVEPOINT`, `PREPARE TRANSACTION`, `COMMIT PREPARED`, `ROLLBACK PREPARED`, or any variant thereof)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_OPUNKNOWN`"}
if the command type is unknown (shouldn\'t happen)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_UNCONNECTED`"}
if called from an unconnected C function
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Notes

All SPI query-execution functions set both `SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` (just the pointer, not the contents of the structure).
Save these two global variables into local C function variables if you need to access the result table of `SPI_execute` or another query-execution function across later calls.

SPI_exec

3

SPI_exec

execute a read/write command

int SPI_exec(const char \*

command

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_exec` is the same as `SPI_execute`, with the latter\'s `read_only` parameter always taken as `false`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
string containing command to execute
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

See `SPI_execute`.

SPI_execute_extended

3

SPI_execute_extended

execute a command with out-of-line parameters

int SPI_execute_extended(const char \*

command

, const SPIExecuteOptions \*

options

)

## Description

`SPI_execute_extended` executes a command that might include references to externally supplied parameters.
The command text refers to a parameter as `$n`, and the `options->params` object (if supplied) provides values and type information for each such symbol.
Various execution options can be specified in the `options` struct, too.

The `options->params` object should normally mark each parameter with the `PARAM_FLAG_CONST` flag, since a one-shot plan is always used for the query.

If `options->dest` is not NULL, then result tuples are passed to that object as they are generated by the executor, instead of being accumulated in `SPI_tuptable`.
Using a caller-supplied `DestReceiver` object is particularly helpful for queries that might generate many tuples, since the data can be processed on-the-fly instead of being accumulated in memory.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const SPIExecuteOptions * options`"}
struct containing optional arguments
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

Callers should always zero out the entire `options` struct, then fill whichever fields they want to set.
This ensures forward compatibility of code, since any fields that are added to the struct in future will be defined to behave backwards-compatibly if they are zero.
The currently available `options` fields are:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`ParamListInfo params`"}
data structure containing query parameter types and values; NULL if none
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool allow_nonatomic`"}
`true` allows non-atomic execution of CALL and DO statements (but this field is ignored unless the `SPI_OPT_NONATOMIC` flag was passed to `SPI_connect_ext`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool must_return_tuples`"}
if `true`, raise error if the query is not of a kind that returns tuples (this does not forbid the case where it happens to return zero tuples)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`uint64 tcount`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`DestReceiver * dest`"}
`DestReceiver` object that will receive any tuples emitted by the query; if NULL, result tuples are accumulated into a `SPI_tuptable` structure, as in `SPI_execute`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`ResourceOwner owner`"}
This field is present for consistency with `SPI_execute_plan_extended`, but it is ignored, since the plan used by `SPI_execute_extended` is never saved.
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The return value is the same as for `SPI_execute`.

When `options->dest` is NULL, `SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute`.
When `options->dest` is not NULL, `SPI_processed` is set to zero and `SPI_tuptable` is set to NULL.
If a tuple count is required, the caller\'s `DestReceiver` object must calculate it.

SPI_execute_with_args

3

SPI_execute_with_args

execute a command with out-of-line parameters

int SPI_execute_with_args(const char \*

command

, int

nargs

, Oid \*

argtypes

, Datum \*

values

, const char \*

nulls

, bool

read_only

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_execute_with_args` executes a command that might include references to externally supplied parameters.
The command text refers to a parameter as `$n`, and the call specifies data types and values for each such symbol. `read_only` and `count` have the same interpretation as in `SPI_execute`.

The main advantage of this routine compared to `SPI_execute` is that data values can be inserted into the command without tedious quoting/escaping, and thus with much less risk of SQL-injection attacks.

Similar results can be achieved with `SPI_prepare` followed by `SPI_execute_plan`; however, when using this function the query plan is always customized to the specific parameter values provided.
For one-time query execution, this function should be preferred.
If the same command is to be executed with many different parameters, either method might be faster, depending on the cost of re-planning versus the benefit of custom plans.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int nargs`"}
number of input parameters (`$1`, `$2`, etc.)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Oid * argtypes`"}
an array of length `nargs`, containing the OIDs of the data types of the parameters
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Datum * values`"}
an array of length `nargs`, containing the actual parameter values
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * nulls`"}
an array of length `nargs`, describing which parameters are null

If `nulls` is `NULL` then `SPI_execute_with_args` assumes that no parameters are null. Otherwise, each entry of the `nulls` array should be `''` if the corresponding parameter value is non-null, or `'n'` if the corresponding parameter value is null. (In the latter case, the actual value in the corresponding `values` entry doesn\'t matter.) Note that `nulls` is not a text string, just an array: it does not need a `'\0'` terminator.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The return value is the same as for `SPI_execute`.

`SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute` if successful.

SPI_prepare

3

SPI_prepare

prepare a statement, without executing it yet

SPIPlanPtr SPI_prepare(const char \*

command

, int

nargs

, Oid \*

argtypes

)

## Description

`SPI_prepare` creates and returns a prepared statement for the specified command, but doesn\'t execute the command.
The prepared statement can later be executed repeatedly using `SPI_execute_plan`.

When the same or a similar command is to be executed repeatedly, it is generally advantageous to perform parse analysis only once, and might furthermore be advantageous to re-use an execution plan for the command. `SPI_prepare` converts a command string into a prepared statement that encapsulates the results of parse analysis.
The prepared statement also provides a place for caching an execution plan if it is found that generating a custom plan for each execution is not helpful.

A prepared command can be generalized by writing parameters (`$1`, `$2`, etc.) in place of what would be constants in a normal command.
The actual values of the parameters are then specified when `SPI_execute_plan` is called.
This allows the prepared command to be used over a wider range of situations than would be possible without parameters.

The statement returned by `SPI_prepare` can be used only in the current invocation of the C function, since `SPI_finish` frees memory allocated for such a statement.
But the statement can be saved for longer using the functions `SPI_keepplan` or `SPI_saveplan`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int nargs`"}
number of input parameters (`$1`, `$2`, etc.)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Oid * argtypes`"}
pointer to an array containing the OIDs of the data types of the parameters
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_prepare` returns a non-null pointer to an `SPIPlan`, which is an opaque struct representing a prepared statement.
On error, `NULL` will be returned, and `SPI_result` will be set to one of the same error codes used by `SPI_execute`, except that it is set to `SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT` if `command` is `NULL`, or if `nargs` is less than 0, or if `nargs` is greater than 0 and `argtypes` is `NULL`.

## Notes

If no parameters are defined, a generic plan will be created at the first use of `SPI_execute_plan`, and used for all subsequent executions as well.
If there are parameters, the first few uses of `SPI_execute_plan` will generate custom plans that are specific to the supplied parameter values.
After enough uses of the same prepared statement, `SPI_execute_plan` will build a generic plan, and if that is not too much more expensive than the custom plans, it will start using the generic plan instead of re-planning each time.
If this default behavior is unsuitable, you can alter it by passing the `CURSOR_OPT_GENERIC_PLAN` or `CURSOR_OPT_CUSTOM_PLAN` flag to `SPI_prepare_cursor`, to force use of generic or custom plans respectively.

Although the main point of a prepared statement is to avoid repeated parse analysis and planning of the statement, PostgreSQL will force re-analysis and re-planning of the statement before using it whenever database objects used in the statement have undergone definitional (DDL) changes since the previous use of the prepared statement.
Also, if the value of [search_path (string)
      
       search_path configuration parameter
      
      pathfor schemas](braised:ref/runtime-config-client#search-path-string-search-path-configuration-parameter-pathfor-schemas) changes from one use to the next, the statement will be re-parsed using the new `search_path`. (This latter behavior is new as of PostgreSQL 9.3.) See [PREPARE](braised:ref/sql-prepare) for more information about the behavior of prepared statements.

This function should only be called from a connected C function.

`SPIPlanPtr` is declared as a pointer to an opaque struct type in `spi.h`.
It is unwise to try to access its contents directly, as that makes your code much more likely to break in future revisions of PostgreSQL.

The name `SPIPlanPtr` is somewhat historical, since the data structure no longer necessarily contains an execution plan.

SPI_prepare_cursor

3

SPI_prepare_cursor

prepare a statement, without executing it yet

SPIPlanPtr SPI_prepare_cursor(const char \*

command

, int

nargs

, Oid \*

argtypes

, int

cursorOptions

)

## Description

`SPI_prepare_cursor` is identical to `SPI_prepare`, except that it also allows specification of the planner\'s "cursor options" parameter.
This is a bit mask having the values shown in `nodes/parsenodes.h` for the options field of DeclareCursorStmt. `SPI_prepare` always takes the cursor options as zero.

This function is now deprecated in favor of `SPI_prepare_extended`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int nargs`"}
number of input parameters (`$1`, `$2`, etc.)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Oid * argtypes`"}
pointer to an array containing the OIDs of the data types of the parameters
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int cursorOptions`"}
integer bit mask of cursor options; zero produces default behavior
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_prepare_cursor` has the same return conventions as `SPI_prepare`.

## Notes

Useful bits to set in `cursorOptions` include `CURSOR_OPT_SCROLL`, `CURSOR_OPT_NO_SCROLL`, `CURSOR_OPT_FAST_PLAN`, `CURSOR_OPT_GENERIC_PLAN`, and `CURSOR_OPT_CUSTOM_PLAN`.
Note in particular that `CURSOR_OPT_HOLD` is ignored.

SPI_prepare_extended

3

SPI_prepare_extended

prepare a statement, without executing it yet

SPIPlanPtr SPI_prepare_extended(const char \*

command

, const SPIPrepareOptions \*

options

)

## Description

`SPI_prepare_extended` creates and returns a prepared statement for the specified command, but doesn\'t execute the command.
This function is equivalent to `SPI_prepare`, with the addition that the caller can specify options to control the parsing of external parameter references, as well as other facets of query parsing and planning.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const SPIPrepareOptions * options`"}
struct containing optional arguments
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

Callers should always zero out the entire `options` struct, then fill whichever fields they want to set.
This ensures forward compatibility of code, since any fields that are added to the struct in future will be defined to behave backwards-compatibly if they are zero.
The currently available `options` fields are:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`ParserSetupHook parserSetup`"}
Parser hook setup function
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`void * parserSetupArg`"}
pass-through argument for `parserSetup`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`RawParseMode parseMode`"}
mode for raw parsing; `RAW_PARSE_DEFAULT` (zero) produces default behavior
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int cursorOptions`"}
integer bit mask of cursor options; zero produces default behavior
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_prepare_extended` has the same return conventions as `SPI_prepare`.

SPI_prepare_params

3

SPI_prepare_params

prepare a statement, without executing it yet

SPIPlanPtr SPI_prepare_params(const char \*

command

, ParserSetupHook

parserSetup

, void \*

parserSetupArg

, int

cursorOptions

)

## Description

`SPI_prepare_params` creates and returns a prepared statement for the specified command, but doesn\'t execute the command.
This function is equivalent to `SPI_prepare_cursor`, with the addition that the caller can specify parser hook functions to control the parsing of external parameter references.

This function is now deprecated in favor of `SPI_prepare_extended`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`ParserSetupHook parserSetup`"}
Parser hook setup function
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`void * parserSetupArg`"}
pass-through argument for `parserSetup`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int cursorOptions`"}
integer bit mask of cursor options; zero produces default behavior
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_prepare_params` has the same return conventions as `SPI_prepare`.

SPI_getargcount

3

SPI_getargcount

return the number of arguments needed by a statement prepared by

SPI_prepare

int SPI_getargcount(SPIPlanPtr

plan

)

## Description

`SPI_getargcount` returns the number of arguments needed to execute a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The count of expected arguments for the `plan`.
If the `plan` is `NULL` or invalid, `SPI_result` is set to `SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT` and -1 is returned.

SPI_getargtypeid

3

SPI_getargtypeid

return the data type OID for an argument of a statement prepared by

SPI_prepare

Oid SPI_getargtypeid(SPIPlanPtr

plan

, int

argIndex

)

## Description

`SPI_getargtypeid` returns the OID representing the type for the `argIndex`\'th argument of a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare`.
First argument is at index zero.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int argIndex`"}
zero based index of the argument
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The type OID of the argument at the given index.
If the `plan` is `NULL` or invalid, or `argIndex` is less than 0 or not less than the number of arguments declared for the `plan`, `SPI_result` is set to `SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT` and `InvalidOid` is returned.

SPI_is_cursor_plan

3

SPI_is_cursor_plan

return

true

if a statement prepared by

SPI_prepare

can be used with

SPI_cursor_open

bool SPI_is_cursor_plan(SPIPlanPtr

plan

)

## Description

`SPI_is_cursor_plan` returns `true` if a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare` can be passed as an argument to `SPI_cursor_open`, or `false` if that is not the case.
The criteria are that the `plan` represents one single command and that this command returns tuples to the caller; for example, `SELECT` is allowed unless it contains an `INTO` clause, and `UPDATE` is allowed only if it contains a `RETURNING` clause.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`true` or `false` to indicate if the `plan` can produce a cursor or not, with `SPI_result` set to zero.
If it is not possible to determine the answer (for example, if the `plan` is `NULL` or invalid, or if called when not connected to SPI), then `SPI_result` is set to a suitable error code and `false` is returned.

SPI_execute_plan

3

SPI_execute_plan

execute a statement prepared by

SPI_prepare

int SPI_execute_plan(SPIPlanPtr

plan

, Datum \*

values

, const char \*

nulls

, bool

read_only

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_execute_plan` executes a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare` or one of its siblings. `read_only` and `count` have the same interpretation as in `SPI_execute`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Datum * values`"}
An array of actual parameter values. Must have same length as the statement\'s number of arguments.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * nulls`"}
An array describing which parameters are null. Must have same length as the statement\'s number of arguments.

If `nulls` is `NULL` then `SPI_execute_plan` assumes that no parameters are null. Otherwise, each entry of the `nulls` array should be `''` if the corresponding parameter value is non-null, or `'n'` if the corresponding parameter value is null. (In the latter case, the actual value in the corresponding `values` entry doesn\'t matter.) Note that `nulls` is not a text string, just an array: it does not need a `'\0'` terminator.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The return value is the same as for `SPI_execute`, with the following additional possible error (negative) results:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT`"}
if `plan` is `NULL` or invalid, or `count` is less than 0
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_PARAM`"}
if `values` is `NULL` and `plan` was prepared with some parameters
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

`SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute` if successful.

SPI_execute_plan_extended

3

SPI_execute_plan_extended

execute a statement prepared by

SPI_prepare

int SPI_execute_plan_extended(SPIPlanPtr

plan

, const SPIExecuteOptions \*

options

)

## Description

`SPI_execute_plan_extended` executes a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare` or one of its siblings.
This function is equivalent to `SPI_execute_plan`, except that information about the parameter values to be passed to the query is presented differently, and additional execution-controlling options can be passed.

Query parameter values are represented by a `ParamListInfo` struct, which is convenient for passing down values that are already available in that format.
Dynamic parameter sets can also be used, via hook functions specified in `ParamListInfo`.

Also, instead of always accumulating the result tuples into a `SPI_tuptable` structure, tuples can be passed to a caller-supplied `DestReceiver` object as they are generated by the executor.
This is particularly helpful for queries that might generate many tuples, since the data can be processed on-the-fly instead of being accumulated in memory.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const SPIExecuteOptions * options`"}
struct containing optional arguments
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

Callers should always zero out the entire `options` struct, then fill whichever fields they want to set.
This ensures forward compatibility of code, since any fields that are added to the struct in future will be defined to behave backwards-compatibly if they are zero.
The currently available `options` fields are:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`ParamListInfo params`"}
data structure containing query parameter types and values; NULL if none
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool allow_nonatomic`"}
`true` allows non-atomic execution of CALL and DO statements (but this field is ignored unless the `SPI_OPT_NONATOMIC` flag was passed to `SPI_connect_ext`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool must_return_tuples`"}
if `true`, raise error if the query is not of a kind that returns tuples (this does not forbid the case where it happens to return zero tuples)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`uint64 tcount`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`DestReceiver * dest`"}
`DestReceiver` object that will receive any tuples emitted by the query; if NULL, result tuples are accumulated into a `SPI_tuptable` structure, as in `SPI_execute_plan`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`ResourceOwner owner`"}
The resource owner that will hold a reference count on the plan while it is executed. If NULL, CurrentResourceOwner is used. Ignored for non-saved plans, as SPI does not acquire reference counts on those.
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The return value is the same as for `SPI_execute_plan`.

When `options->dest` is NULL, `SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute_plan`.
When `options->dest` is not NULL, `SPI_processed` is set to zero and `SPI_tuptable` is set to NULL.
If a tuple count is required, the caller\'s `DestReceiver` object must calculate it.

SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist

3

SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist

execute a statement prepared by

SPI_prepare

int SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist(SPIPlanPtr

plan

, ParamListInfo

params

, bool

read_only

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_execute_plan_with_paramlist` executes a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare`.
This function is equivalent to `SPI_execute_plan` except that information about the parameter values to be passed to the query is presented differently.
The `ParamListInfo` representation can be convenient for passing down values that are already available in that format.
It also supports use of dynamic parameter sets via hook functions specified in `ParamListInfo`.

This function is now deprecated in favor of `SPI_execute_plan_extended`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`ParamListInfo params`"}
data structure containing parameter types and values; NULL if none
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

The return value is the same as for `SPI_execute_plan`.

`SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute_plan` if successful.

SPI_execp

3

SPI_execp

execute a statement in read/write mode

int SPI_execp(SPIPlanPtr

plan

, Datum \*

values

, const char \*

nulls

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_execp` is the same as `SPI_execute_plan`, with the latter\'s `read_only` parameter always taken as `false`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Datum * values`"}
An array of actual parameter values. Must have same length as the statement\'s number of arguments.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * nulls`"}
An array describing which parameters are null. Must have same length as the statement\'s number of arguments.

If `nulls` is `NULL` then `SPI_execp` assumes that no parameters are null. Otherwise, each entry of the `nulls` array should be `''` if the corresponding parameter value is non-null, or `'n'` if the corresponding parameter value is null. (In the latter case, the actual value in the corresponding `values` entry doesn\'t matter.) Note that `nulls` is not a text string, just an array: it does not need a `'\0'` terminator.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to return, or `0` for no limit
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

See `SPI_execute_plan`.

`SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute` if successful.

SPI_cursor_open

3

SPI_cursor_open

set up a cursor using a statement created with

SPI_prepare

Portal SPI_cursor_open(const char \*

name

, SPIPlanPtr

plan

, Datum \*

values

, const char \*

nulls

, bool

read_only

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_open` sets up a cursor (internally, a portal) that will execute a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare`.
The parameters have the same meanings as the corresponding parameters to `SPI_execute_plan`.

Using a cursor instead of executing the statement directly has two benefits.
First, the result rows can be retrieved a few at a time, avoiding memory overrun for queries that return many rows.
Second, a portal can outlive the current C function (it can, in fact, live to the end of the current transaction).
Returning the portal name to the C function\'s caller provides a way of returning a row set as result.

The passed-in parameter data will be copied into the cursor\'s portal, so it can be freed while the cursor still exists.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * name`"}
name for portal, or `NULL` to let the system select a name
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Datum * values`"}
An array of actual parameter values. Must have same length as the statement\'s number of arguments.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * nulls`"}
An array describing which parameters are null. Must have same length as the statement\'s number of arguments.

If `nulls` is `NULL` then `SPI_cursor_open` assumes that no parameters are null. Otherwise, each entry of the `nulls` array should be `''` if the corresponding parameter value is non-null, or `'n'` if the corresponding parameter value is null. (In the latter case, the actual value in the corresponding `values` entry doesn\'t matter.) Note that `nulls` is not a text string, just an array: it does not need a `'\0'` terminator.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

Pointer to portal containing the cursor.
Note there is no error return convention; any error will be reported via `elog`.

SPI_cursor_open_with_args

3

SPI_cursor_open_with_args

set up a cursor using a query and parameters

Portal SPI_cursor_open_with_args(const char \*

name

, const char \*

command

, int

nargs

, Oid \*

argtypes

, Datum \*

values

, const char \*

nulls

, bool

read_only

, int

cursorOptions

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_open_with_args` sets up a cursor (internally, a portal) that will execute the specified query.
Most of the parameters have the same meanings as the corresponding parameters to `SPI_prepare_cursor` and `SPI_cursor_open`.

For one-time query execution, this function should be preferred over `SPI_prepare_cursor` followed by `SPI_cursor_open`.
If the same command is to be executed with many different parameters, either method might be faster, depending on the cost of re-planning versus the benefit of custom plans.

The passed-in parameter data will be copied into the cursor\'s portal, so it can be freed while the cursor still exists.

This function is now deprecated in favor of `SPI_cursor_parse_open`, which provides equivalent functionality using a more modern API for handling query parameters.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * name`"}
name for portal, or `NULL` to let the system select a name
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int nargs`"}
number of input parameters (`$1`, `$2`, etc.)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Oid * argtypes`"}
an array of length `nargs`, containing the OIDs of the data types of the parameters
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`Datum * values`"}
an array of length `nargs`, containing the actual parameter values
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * nulls`"}
an array of length `nargs`, describing which parameters are null

If `nulls` is `NULL` then `SPI_cursor_open_with_args` assumes that no parameters are null. Otherwise, each entry of the `nulls` array should be `''` if the corresponding parameter value is non-null, or `'n'` if the corresponding parameter value is null. (In the latter case, the actual value in the corresponding `values` entry doesn\'t matter.) Note that `nulls` is not a text string, just an array: it does not need a `'\0'` terminator.
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int cursorOptions`"}
integer bit mask of cursor options; zero produces default behavior
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

Pointer to portal containing the cursor.
Note there is no error return convention; any error will be reported via `elog`.

SPI_cursor_open_with_paramlist

3

SPI_cursor_open_with_paramlist

set up a cursor using parameters

Portal SPI_cursor_open_with_paramlist(const char \*

name

, SPIPlanPtr

plan

, ParamListInfo

params

, bool

read_only

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_open_with_paramlist` sets up a cursor (internally, a portal) that will execute a statement prepared by `SPI_prepare`.
This function is equivalent to `SPI_cursor_open` except that information about the parameter values to be passed to the query is presented differently.
The `ParamListInfo` representation can be convenient for passing down values that are already available in that format.
It also supports use of dynamic parameter sets via hook functions specified in `ParamListInfo`.

The passed-in parameter data will be copied into the cursor\'s portal, so it can be freed while the cursor still exists.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * name`"}
name for portal, or `NULL` to let the system select a name
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
prepared statement (returned by `SPI_prepare`)
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`ParamListInfo params`"}
data structure containing parameter types and values; NULL if none
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

Pointer to portal containing the cursor.
Note there is no error return convention; any error will be reported via `elog`.

SPI_cursor_parse_open

3

SPI_cursor_parse_open

set up a cursor using a query string and parameters

Portal SPI_cursor_parse_open(const char \*

name

, const char \*

command

, const SPIParseOpenOptions \*

options

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_parse_open` sets up a cursor (internally, a portal) that will execute the specified query string.
This is comparable to `SPI_prepare_cursor` followed by `SPI_cursor_open_with_paramlist`, except that parameter references within the query string are handled entirely by supplying a `ParamListInfo` object.

For one-time query execution, this function should be preferred over `SPI_prepare_cursor` followed by `SPI_cursor_open_with_paramlist`.
If the same command is to be executed with many different parameters, either method might be faster, depending on the cost of re-planning versus the benefit of custom plans.

The `options->params` object should normally mark each parameter with the `PARAM_FLAG_CONST` flag, since a one-shot plan is always used for the query.

The passed-in parameter data will be copied into the cursor\'s portal, so it can be freed while the cursor still exists.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * name`"}
name for portal, or `NULL` to let the system select a name
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const char * command`"}
command string
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`const SPIParseOpenOptions * options`"}
struct containing optional arguments
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

Callers should always zero out the entire `options` struct, then fill whichever fields they want to set.
This ensures forward compatibility of code, since any fields that are added to the struct in future will be defined to behave backwards-compatibly if they are zero.
The currently available `options` fields are:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`ParamListInfo params`"}
data structure containing query parameter types and values; NULL if none
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`int cursorOptions`"}
integer bit mask of cursor options; zero produces default behavior
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool read_only`"}
`true` for read-only execution
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

Pointer to portal containing the cursor.
Note there is no error return convention; any error will be reported via `elog`.

SPI_cursor_find

3

SPI_cursor_find

find an existing cursor by name

Portal SPI_cursor_find(const char \*

name

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_find` finds an existing portal by name.
This is primarily useful to resolve a cursor name returned as text by some other function.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * name`"}
name of the portal
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

pointer to the portal with the specified name, or `NULL` if none was found

## Notes

Beware that this function can return a `Portal` object that does not have cursor-like properties; for example it might not return tuples.
If you simply pass the `Portal` pointer to other SPI functions, they can defend themselves against such cases, but caution is appropriate when directly inspecting the `Portal`.

SPI_cursor_fetch

3

SPI_cursor_fetch

fetch some rows from a cursor

void SPI_cursor_fetch(Portal

portal

, bool

forward

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_fetch` fetches some rows from a cursor.
This is equivalent to a subset of the SQL command `FETCH` (see `SPI_scroll_cursor_fetch` for more functionality).

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`Portal portal`"}
portal containing the cursor
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool forward`"}
true for fetch forward, false for fetch backward
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to fetch
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute` if successful.

## Notes

Fetching backward may fail if the cursor\'s plan was not created with the `CURSOR_OPT_SCROLL` option.

SPI_cursor_move

3

SPI_cursor_move

move a cursor

void SPI_cursor_move(Portal

portal

, bool

forward

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_move` skips over some number of rows in a cursor.
This is equivalent to a subset of the SQL command `MOVE` (see `SPI_scroll_cursor_move` for more functionality).

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`Portal portal`"}
portal containing the cursor
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`bool forward`"}
true for move forward, false for move backward
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
maximum number of rows to move
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Notes

Moving backward may fail if the cursor\'s plan was not created with the `CURSOR_OPT_SCROLL` option.

SPI_scroll_cursor_fetch

3

SPI_scroll_cursor_fetch

fetch some rows from a cursor

void SPI_scroll_cursor_fetch(Portal

portal

, FetchDirection

direction

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_scroll_cursor_fetch` fetches some rows from a cursor.
This is equivalent to the SQL command `FETCH`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`Portal portal`"}
portal containing the cursor
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`FetchDirection direction`"}
one of `FETCH_FORWARD`, `FETCH_BACKWARD`, `FETCH_ABSOLUTE` or `FETCH_RELATIVE`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
number of rows to fetch for `FETCH_FORWARD` or `FETCH_BACKWARD`; absolute row number to fetch for `FETCH_ABSOLUTE`; or relative row number to fetch for `FETCH_RELATIVE`
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_processed` and `SPI_tuptable` are set as in `SPI_execute` if successful.

## Notes

See the SQL [FETCH](braised:ref/sql-fetch) command for details of the interpretation of the `direction` and `count` parameters.

Direction values other than `FETCH_FORWARD` may fail if the cursor\'s plan was not created with the `CURSOR_OPT_SCROLL` option.

SPI_scroll_cursor_move

3

SPI_scroll_cursor_move

move a cursor

void SPI_scroll_cursor_move(Portal

portal

, FetchDirection

direction

, long

count

)

## Description

`SPI_scroll_cursor_move` skips over some number of rows in a cursor.
This is equivalent to the SQL command `MOVE`.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`Portal portal`"}
portal containing the cursor
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`FetchDirection direction`"}
one of `FETCH_FORWARD`, `FETCH_BACKWARD`, `FETCH_ABSOLUTE` or `FETCH_RELATIVE`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`long count`"}
number of rows to move for `FETCH_FORWARD` or `FETCH_BACKWARD`; absolute row number to move to for `FETCH_ABSOLUTE`; or relative row number to move to for `FETCH_RELATIVE`
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

`SPI_processed` is set as in `SPI_execute` if successful. `SPI_tuptable` is set to `NULL`, since no rows are returned by this function.

## Notes

See the SQL [FETCH](braised:ref/sql-fetch) command for details of the interpretation of the `direction` and `count` parameters.

Direction values other than `FETCH_FORWARD` may fail if the cursor\'s plan was not created with the `CURSOR_OPT_SCROLL` option.

SPI_cursor_close

3

SPI_cursor_close

close a cursor

void SPI_cursor_close(Portal

portal

)

## Description

`SPI_cursor_close` closes a previously created cursor and releases its portal storage.

All open cursors are closed automatically at the end of a transaction. `SPI_cursor_close` need only be invoked if it is desirable to release resources sooner.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`Portal portal`"}
portal containing the cursor
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

SPI_keepplan

3

SPI_keepplan

save a prepared statement

int SPI_keepplan(SPIPlanPtr

plan

)

## Description

`SPI_keepplan` saves a passed statement (prepared by `SPI_prepare`) so that it will not be freed by `SPI_finish` nor by the transaction manager.
This gives you the ability to reuse prepared statements in the subsequent invocations of your C function in the current session.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
the prepared statement to be saved
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

0 on success; `SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT` if `plan` is `NULL` or invalid

## Notes

The passed-in statement is relocated to permanent storage by means of pointer adjustment (no data copying is required).
If you later wish to delete it, use `SPI_freeplan` on it.

SPI_saveplan

3

SPI_saveplan

save a prepared statement

SPIPlanPtr SPI_saveplan(SPIPlanPtr

plan

)

## Description

`SPI_saveplan` copies a passed statement (prepared by `SPI_prepare`) into memory that will not be freed by `SPI_finish` nor by the transaction manager, and returns a pointer to the copied statement.
This gives you the ability to reuse prepared statements in the subsequent invocations of your C function in the current session.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPIPlanPtr plan`"}
the prepared statement to be saved
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

Pointer to the copied statement; or `NULL` if unsuccessful.
On error, `SPI_result` is set thus:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT`"}
if `plan` is `NULL` or invalid
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_UNCONNECTED`"}
if called from an unconnected C function
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Notes

The originally passed-in statement is not freed, so you might wish to do `SPI_freeplan` on it to avoid leaking memory until `SPI_finish`.

In most cases, `SPI_keepplan` is preferred to this function, since it accomplishes largely the same result without needing to physically copy the prepared statement\'s data structures.

SPI_register_relation

3

SPI_register_relation

make an ephemeral named relation available by name in SPI queries

int SPI_register_relation(EphemeralNamedRelation

enr

)

## Description

`SPI_register_relation` makes an ephemeral named relation, with associated information, available to queries planned and executed through the current SPI connection.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`EphemeralNamedRelation enr`"}
the ephemeral named relation registry entry
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

If the execution of the command was successful then the following (nonnegative) value will be returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_REL_REGISTER`"}
if the relation has been successfully registered by name
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

On error, one of the following negative values is returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT`"}
if `enr` is `NULL` or its `name` field is `NULL`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_UNCONNECTED`"}
if called from an unconnected C function
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_REL_DUPLICATE`"}
if the name specified in the `name` field of `enr` is already registered for this connection
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

SPI_unregister_relation

3

SPI_unregister_relation

remove an ephemeral named relation from the registry

int SPI_unregister_relation(const char \*

name

)

## Description

`SPI_unregister_relation` removes an ephemeral named relation from the registry for the current connection.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`const char * name`"}
the relation registry entry name
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

If the execution of the command was successful then the following (nonnegative) value will be returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_REL_UNREGISTER`"}
if the tuplestore has been successfully removed from the registry
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

On error, one of the following negative values is returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT`"}
if `name` is `NULL`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_UNCONNECTED`"}
if called from an unconnected C function
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_REL_NOT_FOUND`"}
if `name` is not found in the registry for the current connection
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

SPI_register_trigger_data

3

SPI_register_trigger_data

make ephemeral trigger data available in SPI queries

int SPI_register_trigger_data(TriggerData \*

tdata

)

## Description

`SPI_register_trigger_data` makes any ephemeral relations captured by a trigger available to queries planned and executed through the current SPI connection.
Currently, this means the transition tables captured by an `AFTER` trigger defined with a `REFERENCING OLD/NEW TABLE AS` \... clause.
This function should be called by a PL trigger handler function after connecting.

## Arguments

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`TriggerData *tdata`"}
the TriggerData object passed to a trigger handler function as `fcinfo->context`
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

## Return Value

If the execution of the command was successful then the following (nonnegative) value will be returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_OK_TD_REGISTER`"}
if the captured trigger data (if any) has been successfully registered
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}

On error, one of the following negative values is returned:

:::{.dl}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_ARGUMENT`"}
if `tdata` is `NULL`
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_UNCONNECTED`"}
if called from an unconnected C function
:::{/item}
:::{.item term="`SPI_ERROR_REL_DUPLICATE`"}
if the name of any trigger data transient relation is already registered for this connection
:::{/item}
:::{/dl}
