---
title: "52.7. pg_attribute"
id: catalog-pg-attribute
---

## pg_attribute

The catalog pg_attribute stores information about table columns.
There will be exactly one pg_attribute row for every column in every table in the database. (There will also be attribute entries for indexes, and indeed all objects that have [pg_class](#catalog-pg-class) entries.)

The term attribute is equivalent to column and is used for historical reasons.

:::{.table}
  :::{.row header="true"}
  :::{.cell}
   Column Type

   Description
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attrelid `oid` (references [pg_class](#catalog-pg-class).oid)

   The table this column belongs to
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attname `name`

   The column name
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   atttypid `oid` (references [pg_type](#catalog-pg-type).oid)

   The data type of this column (zero for a dropped column)
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attlen `int2`

   A copy of `pg_type.typlen` of this column\'s type
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attnum `int2`

   The number of the column. Ordinary columns are numbered from 1 up. System columns, such as ctid, have (arbitrary) negative numbers.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   atttypmod `int4`

   atttypmod records type-specific data supplied at table creation time (for example, the maximum length of a `varchar` column). It is passed to type-specific input functions and length coercion functions. The value will generally be -1 for types that do not need atttypmod.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attndims `int2`

   Number of dimensions, if the column is an array type; otherwise 0. (Presently, the number of dimensions of an array is not enforced, so any nonzero value effectively means "it\'s an array".)
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attbyval `bool`

   A copy of `pg_type.typbyval` of this column\'s type
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attalign `char`

   A copy of `pg_type.typalign` of this column\'s type
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attstorage `char`

   Normally a copy of `pg_type.typstorage` of this column\'s type. For TOAST-able data types, this can be altered after column creation to control storage policy.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attcompression `char`

   The current compression method of the column. Typically this is `'\0'` to specify use of the current default setting (see [default_toast_compression (enum)
      
       default_toast_compression configuration parameter](braised:ref/runtime-config-client#default-toast-compression-enum-default-toast-compression-configuration-parameter)). Otherwise, `'p'` selects pglz compression, while `'l'` selects LZ4 compression. However, this field is ignored whenever attstorage does not allow compression.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attnotnull `bool`

   This column has a (possibly invalid) not-null constraint.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   atthasdef `bool`

   This column has a default expression or generation expression, in which case there will be a corresponding entry in the [pg_attrdef](#catalog-pg-attrdef) catalog that actually defines the expression. (Check attgenerated to determine whether this is a default or a generation expression.)
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   atthasmissing `bool`

   This column has a value which is used where the column is entirely missing from the row, as happens when a column is added with a non-volatile `DEFAULT` value after the row is created. The actual value used is stored in the attmissingval column.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attidentity `char`

   If a zero byte (`''`), then not an identity column. Otherwise, `a` = generated always, `d` = generated by default.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attgenerated `char`

   If a zero byte (`''`), then not a generated column. Otherwise, `s` = stored, `v` = virtual. A stored generated column is physically stored like a normal column. A virtual generated column is physically stored as a null value, with the actual value being computed at run time.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attisdropped `bool`

   This column has been dropped and is no longer valid. A dropped column is still physically present in the table, but is ignored by the parser and so cannot be accessed via SQL.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attislocal `bool`

   This column is defined locally in the relation. Note that a column can be locally defined and inherited simultaneously.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attinhcount `int2`

   The number of direct ancestors this column has. A column with a nonzero number of ancestors cannot be dropped nor renamed.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attcollation `oid` (references [pg_collation](#catalog-pg-collation).oid)

   The defined collation of the column, or zero if the column is not of a collatable data type
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attstattarget `int2`

   attstattarget controls the level of detail of statistics accumulated for this column by [`ANALYZE`](#sql-analyze). A zero value indicates that no statistics should be collected. A null value says to use the system default statistics target. The exact meaning of positive values is data type-dependent. For scalar data types, attstattarget is both the target number of "most common values" to collect, and the target number of histogram bins to create.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attacl `aclitem[]`

   Column-level access privileges, if any have been granted specifically on this column
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attoptions `text[]`

   Attribute-level options, as "keyword=value" strings
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attfdwoptions `text[]`

   Attribute-level foreign data wrapper options, as "keyword=value" strings
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
  :::{.row}
  :::{.cell}
   attmissingval `anyarray`

   This column has a one element array containing the value used when the column is entirely missing from the row, as happens when the column is added with a non-volatile `DEFAULT` value after the row is created. The value is only used when atthasmissing is true. If there is no value the column is null.
  :::{/cell}
  :::{/row}
:::{/table}

: pg_attribute Columns

In a dropped column\'s pg_attribute entry, atttypid is reset to zero, but attlen and the other fields copied from [pg_type](#catalog-pg-type) are still valid. This arrangement is needed to cope with the situation where the dropped column\'s data type was later dropped, and so there is no pg_type row anymore. attlen and the other fields can be used to interpret the contents of a row of the table.
